Doers Help Doers
================

:date: 2013-04-03
:slug: starting-sustaining-book
:category: post

I've been catching up on reading my book backlog while traveling over these 
five months on the road from March through August. During my time in Dallas 
I purchased `Starting and Sustaining <http://startingandsustaining.com/>`_ 
by Garrett Dimon. At $99 for the book plus spreadsheet it is quite a bit
more expensive than the other books I have picked up recently.

But of course I fell for the social proof section titled "What are people 
saying?" where a bunch of other authors I've read mentioned how they'd 
gladly pay twice as much for this product. Plus Garrett has been in the 
trenches for the past five year building `Sifter <https://sifterapp.com/>`_.
I'd be shocked if he didn't have some really useful advice for developers 
aspiring to launch their own web application.

Anyway, one particular paragraph in chapter 3 particularly resonated with me:

  One of the most common excuses that I hear is "So and so was able to 
  launch something because they had thousands of Twitter followers—I can’t 
  do that." That’s a pretty shortsighted way of looking at it. Yes, they 
  have thousands of Twitter followers, but that’s usually after years of 
  work. That doesn’t happen by accident. If you think there’s a chance 
  that you may want to launch something two or three years from now, 
  you should start blogging and sharing today. Contribute to open-source 
  projects. Give away information and build an audience. The rest will 
  take care of itself.

I had to read that section a few times to think through what it was
that concisely summed up what I've expressed to people in the past. 

Some people always have excuses for why they can't accomplish what's 
supposedly important to them. There are always external factors preventing 
them from taking that next step. I can't help those people. Whether they are 
clients, friends, or casual acquaintances, they have to learn to help
themselves first.

Then there are the doers. That person you know that if you give her one quick
introduction or work through one technical problem, she will take that inch 
and go miles. She'll work for months or years slowly building up a network 
to make a goal happen. Then one day after all that hard work other people 
will call her an "overnight success."

You can look at the world either way. But doers recognize other doers. We
help each other out to make things happen.

